README.md, before:

# Neovim configuration

# Requirements

Required packages to be present on the system:
* neovim (tested on V0.11.4)
* npm
* A Nerd Font in the terminal

## Nerd Font

1. Download it from [here|https://www.nerdfonts.com/font-downloads].
2. Place the file(s) under ~/.fonts
3. Trigger a cache refresh with fc-cache -f -v
4. Switch the font of the terminal application to the Nerd Font

# Keybindings

All keybindings can be listed with CTRL-x.

The custom keybindings are prefixed to a quicker grep:
* **Generic**: various shortcuts, not linked to any plugin
* **Neotree**: file browser
* **Telescope**: file search and grep shortcuts
* **Fugitive**: git shortcuts
* **nvim-lspconfig**: LSP servers shortcuts
* **none-lua**: code formatters

# Installed plugins

## Treesitter

Syntax highlighting.
It's configured to autodownload the configurations for new languages

## Lualine

Status bar with useful information

## Fugitive

Git integration

## Gitgutter

Show git line diff in files

## Gruvbox

Colorscheme

## Local-Highlight

Highlight the words under the cursor and all its occurrences in the file

## Neotree

Show the filsystem tree and allow to open the files from the sidebar

## Telescope

File search and grep engine

## LSP servers

It's made of many plugins and external applications.
The external applications are downloaded through the plugin Mason.

### Mason

A sort of package manager for external applications

### Mason-lspconfig

An autoinstaller for LSP servers using Mason

### Nvim-lspconfig

Binding between Neovim and the LSP servers

## Formatters

Format code files using external tools

### Mason-tool-installer

Similar to Mason-lspconfig, but for whatever tool that Mason handles, not only LSP servers

### None-ls

Binding between Neovim and the formatters

## Autocomplete

There are 2 ways to make the autocomplete work. One is through a direct
configuration of nvim-cmp (cmp stands for completion), the other one is
exploiting the LSP servers to give snippets of code.

### Nvim-cmp

This has **LuaSnip**, **cmp_luasnip** and **friendly-snippets** as dependencies.
These three are used to populate the autocompletion for LUA.

### Autocompletion using LSP servers

This is based on **cmp-nvim-lsp**. It adds autocomplete capabilities to nvim-cmp
using the LSP servers configured in nvim-lspconfig.

## Alpha-nvim

Just a splash screen if no file is open.

## Lastplace

Reopen the files at the last edit position.

## StartupTime

Show the time spent where during the startup phase.

Commit message:

Made basic configuration compatible with Vim

README.md, after:

# Neovim configuration

# Requirements

Required packages to be present on the system:
* neovim (tested on V0.11.4)
* npm
* A Nerd Font in the terminal

## Nerd Font

1. Download it from [here|https://www.nerdfonts.com/font-downloads].
2. Place the file(s) under ~/.fonts
3. Trigger a cache refresh with fc-cache -f -v
4. Switch the font of the terminal application to the Nerd Font

# How to install

This repository can be used as neovim config folder.
Clone it with the following command:

```
git clone https://github.com/MrModd/nvim-config.git ~/.config/nvim
```

# Vim compatibility

The basic configuration is done in a `vimrc` file to stay compatible with
Vim as well.
The `vimrc` of this repository can be used for Vim as well. It's sufficient to
link it to the user's home.
Assuming this repository is cloned in the default Neovim config location, you can
link the `vimrc` with the following command:

```
ln -s ~/.config/nvim/vimrc ~/.vimrc
```

# Keybindings

All keybindings can be listed with CTRL-x.

The custom keybindings are prefixed to a quicker grep:
* **Neotree**: file browser
* **Telescope**: file search and grep shortcuts
* **Fugitive**: git shortcuts
* **nvim-lspconfig**: LSP servers shortcuts
* **none-lua**: code formatters

There are also generic shortcuts, defined in a vimrc file to
be compatible with Vim.

# Installed plugins

## Treesitter

Syntax highlighting.
It's configured to autodownload the configurations for new languages

## Lualine

Status bar with useful information

## Fugitive

Git integration

## Gitgutter

Show git line diff in files

## Gruvbox

Colorscheme

## Local-Highlight

Highlight the words under the cursor and all its occurrences in the file

## Neotree

Show the filsystem tree and allow to open the files from the sidebar

## Telescope

File search and grep engine

## LSP servers

It's made of many plugins and external applications.
The external applications are downloaded through the plugin Mason.

### Mason

A sort of package manager for external applications

### Mason-lspconfig

An autoinstaller for LSP servers using Mason

### Nvim-lspconfig

Binding between Neovim and the LSP servers

## Formatters

Format code files using external tools

### Mason-tool-installer

Similar to Mason-lspconfig, but for whatever tool that Mason handles, not only LSP servers

### None-ls

Binding between Neovim and the formatters

## Autocomplete

There are 2 ways to make the autocomplete work. One is through a direct
configuration of nvim-cmp (cmp stands for completion), the other one is
exploiting the LSP servers to give snippets of code.

### Nvim-cmp

This has **LuaSnip**, **cmp_luasnip** and **friendly-snippets** as dependencies.
These three are used to populate the autocompletion for LUA.

### Autocompletion using LSP servers

This is based on **cmp-nvim-lsp**. It adds autocomplete capabilities to nvim-cmp
using the LSP servers configured in nvim-lspconfig.

## Alpha-nvim

Just a splash screen if no file is open.

## Lastplace

Reopen the files at the last edit position.

## StartupTime

Show the time spent where during the startup phase.
